hello my name is Ubaldo Acosta
welcome again I hope you're ready to
start this with lesson, we will study the
concept of variables in Java. This is the
basis for the management of information
when creating our programs in Java. Are
you ready? let's begin. Variables in Java
in Java, as in any programming language
to store information is necessary to
create variables, which will allow us to
store data from our program temporarily
the objective of declaring a variable is
to reserve memory space depending on the
type that we are going to use. This
variables also allows to make dynamic
programs so in most cases the values
will change during the interaction with
the user and the program for example as we
can see in the figure we have data which
can be changing throughout execution of
our program. In Java there are different
types of data, so we will study in more
detail the types of data and therefore
the types of variables that we need to
create to store a specific type of data
so let's continue. Types in Java. We have
primitive types and referenced types
object types, and in primitive types we
have int types and float types and in
reference we have Classes, Interfaces and
Arrays. There is a wide classification
regarding the types that are handled in
Java, however we can summarize it in the
figures shown. In one hand we have
primitive types, and on the other hand we
have the types that are considered as
extensions of the object class, also
known as reference to objects. Regarding
the primitive types we can classify them
in integer and floating types
however we also have the boolean type
each of these types we will see them in
more details below. On the other side we
have the types object which can be
classes interfaces or arrays in Java
we will study these types in the topic
of classes and objects in Java so for
now we will focus on primitive types and
how to declare them and use this type of
data in Java. We have primitive data
types in Java and are classified as
integer types and flow types and we have
the next integer types by it which has
eight bits
short which occupies 16 bits, char which
occupies 16 bits too, int which has 32
bits long
which has 64 bits and in float types we
have the float type which has 32 bits
and double which has 64 bits the boolean
type in Java is also a primitive type
and can store only the value of true or
false its default value is false let's
see the default values for every data
type. The default value for byte is 0, for
short is 0, for char is the 0, but in
unicode, for int is 0, for long is 0, for
float is 0.0 and for double is 0.0. As we
discussed earlier, we have different
types of data in Java, in total there are
8, these types of Java are the most basic
and are those that we will use if we
need the fastest and most resource
saving with the aim of making our
algorithms as efficient as possible
however in practice we will also use
already creative functions that can make
in directive use of these primitive
types so in any
case we will be managing them in our
programs either directly or indirectly
each of these primitive types has a
default value which is important to know
since when we use them together with our
Java classes the compiler will take into
account this value by default according
to the type of data we use. In the figure
we can see both the number of bits that
each data occupies as well as the
default values that are assigned to each
type when they are used as attributes
for classes in Java. Later we will create
several exercises to put into practice
the use of primitive types in Java